# Sensei’s notes, comments, suggestions, and others. MOST IMPORTANT FEEDBACK:

- “I wonder if we could apply the temporal analysis using subspace representation to your research proposal.  I expect that the First-order and Second-order difference subspaces work on the temporal analysis of satellite images when we could a satellite image with multiple band channels as a subspace. How about researching some methods using subspace representation on satellite image analysis? I recommend you read my ArXiv paper that proposes the second Difference Subspace (the Second-order difference subspace paper we know) as well. If you could find an open dataset, we can start studying your idea soon.”

- “There are many many types of change detection methods. You can find several survey papers on the internet. How about reading such papers to catch the overview, including the necessary math? Besides, I recommend our paper using first and second DSs as one possible approach, in which the concept of DSs is applied to a task of change detection.
https://www.arxiv.org/pdf/2409.08563The following paper contains several mistakes, but the reference list can be helpful for you.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.17802 “

- “For the methods using SSA (Singular spectrum analysis), you can find several papers from my publication list. For example, Lincon, Bernadro,  and Maha also used SSA in their works. Besides, the concept of slow feature analysis also is useful.
Kobayashi-san at AIST & Prof. UT proposed the following idea and then Suzana applied it to her PhD work.
https://staff.aist.go.jp/takumi.kobayashi/publication/2017/BMVC2017.pdf
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666827023000464”

- “Dear Abdo, do you also like theoretical research using deep math? Kazu”

- “Can you check the submission version of Hiraoka-san's paper in terms of English? Our paper on RTW has been finally accepted by a ICIP workshop, 'Learning Beyond Deep Learning (LBDL)'. The originality of the paper is highly evaluated this time. I think reading the paper stimulates you in considering your future research. It’s here https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.16366 “

- “How about considering the possibility of incorporating the simple idea of RTW into your research in the future? Did you send the comments to Hiraoka-san?”

- I said: “I can try using xBD dataset metadata to get the same satellite images from Sentinel-2 online dataset which has other bands like LiDAR or infrared, the challenge with this approach is combining data from two different datasets, as I would need to do a lot of pre-processing for stuff like matching and alignment” and sensei replied: “thank you for the detailed explanation. I think it would be better if you could increase the number of bands by extracting from the source. How about conducting an analysis using DS as an initial trial? Did you read my TPAMI2015 paper? You can find similar examples in the paper -Difference Subspace and Its Generalization  for Subspace-Based Methods- https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7053916 “. What’s interesting is now its November 2025 and some people produced a research paper that makes that and they call it xBD-s12 which I think does exactly that maybe? (double check).

- “I am interested in how the DS work to extract the difference components between before and after satellite subspaces. I know well that the approach using a linear DS is still native and straightforward. But, I believe that it is a good starting point for future deep research.”

- I said: “Hello sensei, sorry for the late reply. I'm going with using First-Order DS on multi-band satellite images change detection research. I'm using first order DS on a 256×256 Sentinel 2 satellite images (each image has 10 bandwidths and in GeoTIFF format, they call it a patch) per date, with all 10 bands together, I'm computing canonical angles and the difference subspace between those two per date subspaces. The objective is to get a method that extracts change between different time stamps for a region that doesn't require training, after extracting change features from the image pair I hope to pass them on to be segmented with the state of art segmentation model and compare the results in a benchmark like the xBD benchmark for damage assessment or others.To be honest, I'm conflicted which use case to choose for my research, because so far I'm focusing on developing a method for change detection in satellite images that uses DS, but I haven't chosen a use case (like building damage assessment, forest wildfires, flood dagame, landslide detection). I can orientate my method to a specific use case of these or other related disasters, but should I do that or should I keep focusing on developing the method itself? for testing out the results I'm using MultiSenGE dataset (used for land cove and land use) as a benchmark for testing because it's popular for remote sensing tasks.” Then sensei replied: “Dear Abood, thank you for sharing the current status. You need to be familiar with the concept of subspace representation as a helpful tool. I know well that there are other functional approaches for your task, so we don't need to stick with this one. However, I recommend using the subspace representation as an initial tool, as it may be easy to generate an original point using your method. After that, you can extend your work in various directions, for example, by using deep features or combining the subspace representation and DNN/LLM. How about conducting a simple evaluation of the database to understand its characteristics and verify the validity of DS for your task? In summary, my answer is to continue considering a method by using the subspace representation with DS. Kazu”.
